In this video, we will learn about some of the languages relevant to the work of data
professionals.
These can be categorized as –query languages, programming languages, and shell scripting.
Having proficiency in at leastone language in each category is essential forany data
professional.
Simply stated:
Query languagesare designed for accessing and manipulating data in a database; for example,
SQL
Programming languages are designed for developing applications and controlling application behavior;
for example, Python, R, and Java; and
Shell and Scripting languages, such as Unix/Linux Shell, and PowerShell, are ideal for repetitive
and time-consuming operational tasks.
In the remaining video, we will examine these languages in greater depth.
SQL, or Structured Query Language, is a querying language designed for accessing and manipulating
information from, mostly, though not exclusively, relational databases.
Using SQL, we can write a set of instructions to perform operations such as
Insert, update, and delete records in a database;
Create new databases, tables, and views; and
Write stored procedures—which means you can write a set of instructions and call them
for later use
Here are some advantages of using SQL—
SQL is portable and can be used independent of the platform
It can be used for querying data in a wide variety of databases and data repositories,
although each vendor may have some variations and special extensions.
It has a simple syntax that is similar to the English language
Its syntax allows developers to write programs with fewer lines than some of the other programming
languagesusing basic keywords such as select, insert, into, and update.
It can retrieve large amountsof data quickly and efficiently.
It runs on an interpreter system, which means code can be executed as soon as it is written,
making prototyping quick and easy.
SQL is one of the most popular querying language.
Due to its large user community and the sheer volume of documentation accumulated over the
years, it continues to provide a uniform platform, worldwide, to all its users.
Python is a widely-used open-source, general-purpose, high-level programming language.
Its syntax allows programmers to express their concepts in fewer lines of code, as compared
to some of the older languages.
Python is perceived as one of the easiest languages to learn and has a large developer
community.
Because of its focus on simplicity and readability, and a low learning curve, it’s an ideal
tool for beginning programmers.
It is great for performing high-computational tasks in vast amounts of data, which can otherwise
be extremely time-consuming and cumbersome.
Python provides libraries like Numpy and Pandas, which eases this task by the use of parallel
processing.
It has in built functions for almost all of the frequently used concepts.
Python supports multiple programming paradigms, such as object-oriented, imperative, functional,
and procedural, making it suitable for a wide variety of use cases.
Now let’s look at some of the reasons that make Python one of the fastest-growing programming
languages in the world today.
It is easy to learn—
With Python, you have the advantage of using fewer lines of code to accomplish tasks compared
to other languages.
It is open-source —
Python is free and uses a community-based model for development.
It runs on Windows and Linux environmentsand can be ported to multiple platforms.
It has widespread community support with plenty of useful analytics libraries available.
It has several open-source libraries for data manipulation, data visualization, statistics,
and mathematics, to name just a few.
Its vast array of libraries and functionalities also include:
Pandas for data cleaning and analysis
Numpy and Scipy, for statistical analysis
Beautifulsoup and Scrapy for web scraping
Matplotlib and Seaborn to visually represent data in the form of bar graphs, histogram,
and pie-charts
OpenCV for image processing
R is an open-source programming language and environment for data analysis, data visualization,
machine learning, and statistics.
Widely used for developing statistical software and performing data analytics, it is especially
known for its ability to create compelling visualizations, giving it an edge over some
of the other languages in this space.
Some of the key benefits of R includethe following:
It is an open-source platform-independent programming language
It can be paired with many programming languages, including Python
It is highly extensible, which means developers can continue to add functionalities by defining
new functions
Itfacilitates the handling of structured as well as unstructured data which means it has
a more comprehensive data capability
It has libraries such as Ggplot2 and Plotly that offer aesthetic graphical plots to its
users
You can make reports with the dataand scripts embedded in them; also, interactive web apps
that allow users to play with the results and the data
It is dominant among other programming languages for developing statistical tools
Java is an object-oriented, class-based, and platform-independent programming language
originally developed by Sun Microsystems.
It is among the top-ranked programming languages used today.
Java is used in a number of processes all through data analytics, including cleaning
data, importing and exporting data, statistical analysis, and data visualization.
In fact, most of the popular frameworks and tools used for big data are typically written
in Java, such as Hadoop, Hive, and Spark.
It is perfectly suited for speed-critical projects.
A Unix/Linux Shell is a computer program written for the UNIX shell.
It is a series of UNIX commands written in a plain text file to accomplish a specific
task.
Writing a shell script is fast and easy.
It is most useful for repetitive tasks that may be time-consuming to execute by typing
one line at a time.
Typical operations performed by shell scripts include:
file manipulation
program execution
system administration tasks such as disk backups and evaluating system logs
installation scripts for complex programs
executing routine backups
running batches
PowerShell is a cross-platform automation tool and configuration framework by Microsoft
that is optimized for working with structured data formats, such as JSON, CSV, XML, and
REST APIs, websites, and office applications.
It consists of a command-line shell and scripting language.
PowerShell is object-based, which makes it possible to filter, sort, measure, group,
compare, and many more actions on objects as they pass through a data pipeline.
It is also a good tool for data mining, building GUIs, and creating charts, dashboards, and
interactive reports.