There are various pathways you
can explore in order to get into the field of data engineering. We’re going to explore some of
these pathways in this video. You can bring in the screen title and the persona of a data engineer.
We will build-up on this persona in the next segment.
Degrees and Professional Certifications Data Engineering is a highly technical field.
An academic degree in computer science or engineering will set you
off on this path right away. It is true that some of the employers
will have this as entry-level criteria. But what is also true is
that a lot of data engineers, especially ones who were coming with some
background in coding, are self-taught. There are comprehensive online programs and
multi-course specializations available by some of the well-known learning platforms
such as Coursera, edX, and Udacity. Their curricula have been designed and
delivered by some of the best colleges and technology companies in this space.
These courses will expose you to hands-on assignments and real-world projects,
which will give you the confidence to venture into this field.
You can also earn professional certifications from these courses, which are
recognized and valued in today’s job market. By now, you have a fair idea of the
breadth of sub-domains and technical skills within data engineering, so it should
be fairly easy for you to select the path that meets your current skill-level and aspirations.
For example, you may decide to build your skills in pipelines or distributed systems, or data
architecture to begin with, before you venture into the other areas of data engineering.
Being clear about your short and long-term goals will help you design a learning path for
yourself that will support you on this journey. While there are several different ways in
which you can make an entry in this field, your technical abilities will be
your mainstay in this profession, along with a broad understanding of the scope and
use of data in business. If you are not a graduate, or, you are a graduate in a non-related stream,
but want to upskill or switch careers, then too you can take the help of professional
certifications and other learning resources to gain data engineering skills.
For example, you could be an IT Support Specialist, a Software Tester, a Programmer,
or involved in any other technical role in your current job and upskill to gain these skills.
You could also be a Statistician, a Data Analyst, a BI Analyst, or any other type of data
professional, and re-skill yourself to get into data engineering. If you have some
basic familiarity with coding, you can develop some baseline technical
skills that can get you started. For example, programming and
query languages, working with different operating systems, and databases.
Having built some of these skills, you can gain an entry-level job or create some projects which
you can add to your portfolio before you start to pursue some of the more advanced skills.
Real-world exposure is important to solidify your understanding in this field.
As you gain experience applying and processing what you have learned, you can move on
to larger teams and companies with more complex data needs and infrastructure. Data Engineering is a fast-moving
field. If you’re curious, open to learning new things, and excited about technology, you will
be a great asset to any data engineering team.