In this video, we will listen to
several data professionals talk about the impact of Big Data on data engineering.
So how is the Big Data changing and shaping the field
of data engineering. Big Data can be described as the data that
has these four characteristics, also known as four Vs; velocity,
veracity, volume, and variety. Big Data has had a
major impact on data engineering, making it a much
more diverse and a rich field. It's quite natural because
with all the data that the organizations are collecting
these days, being able to make sense of it and derive insights
from it is becoming more and more relevant and critical. And that has opened up a vast
opportunity. Not only have we seen the emergence of new
technologies and products related to working with Big
Data, it's also created a huge demand for professionals who can
effectively work with large volumes and variety of data,
both for building and managing these big data systems, but also
for analyzing data within them. In the pre-IoT on
social media days, the number of ways you can
ingest the data into a database are really small. Like
for example, you have a data entry analyst that's putting data into these
databases at a very slow pace. But in the past decade,
especially with these all new gadgets and devices talking to
each other on these APIs, pushing latest updates to
these different gadgets, the nature of the data itself
changed. As a result of this evolution, the data engineering
envolved as well because your traditional RDBMSes are not a
one-size fits-all solution like a lot of database administrators
and data engineers discovered in a hardware. With these variety of
data sources and volumes, the field of data engineering
itself evolved significantly, and data engineers ended up
inventing these new data sources such as Google BigTable,
Cassandra, Graph-based Databases, Hadoop, MapReduce to analyze these
petabytes of data. So data engineers ended up writing their
own tools and also learning and working on new technologies. So
there was a big evolution due to Big Data. Big Data has
fundamentally changed things in that organizations are much more
accepting of storing large amounts of data. Storage for data, actual disk space, is no
longer a big issue. We've gotten to the point where we stored a
lot more data, and that's what the big data buzzword storm has
really brought about. That, and better ways of handling large
amounts of data. You know, we can think of Big Data in
different ways. There's obviously unstructured data
which has become a huge thing and is usually not handled
within databases. If it is, it's handled in something like MongoDB.
And then there's also just a vast amount more of data that
we're dealing with.