Data Governance is a collection of principles,
practices, and processes to maintain the security, privacy, and integrity of data through its
lifecycle. A data governance framework encompasses every
part of an organization's data management process—including the technologies, databases,
and data models. What are the types of data these regulations
seek to protect from misuse? Primarily, personal and sensitive data. That is data that can be traced back to an
individual, can be used to identify an individual, or contains information that can be used to
cause harm to the person, for example data about race, sexual orientation, or genetic
information. The General Data Protection Regulation, or
GDPR, is a regulation specific to the European Union. It protects the personal data and privacy
of EU citizens for transactions that occur within EU member states. In the United States, individual states have
formulated their own regulations. For instance, California created the California
Consumer Privacy Act, or CCPA, to better protect customer data. There are also industry-specific regulations
that govern the collection and use of sensitive and personal data. For example, In Healthcare, HIPAA privacy rules govern
the collection and disclosure of protected health information. In Retail, the PCI DSS standards govern credit
card data. And In Finance, SOX regulations govern the handling
and reporting of financial information. What is compliance? Compliance covers the processes and procedures
through which an organization adheres to regulations and conducts its operations in a legal and
ethical manner. Organizations need to establish controls and
checks in order to comply with regulations. And maintain a verifiable audit trail that
can establish their adherence to these regulations. Consequences of non-compliance with the standards
can be severe. They can result in financial penalties, mar
public perception, and result in loss of trust amongst clients and partners. It’s important to mention that compliance
is not a one-time activity—it is an ongoing process requiring a blend of people, process,
and technology that continues to evolve. Governance regulations require enterprises
to know their purpose and be clear and transparent in their actions at every step of the data
lifecycle. Let's understand this better by walking through
a typical data lifecycle and just a few of the considerations that may apply at each
stage. A typical data lifecycle in an organization
includes the following stages In the Data Acquisition stage, you need to
establish What data needs to be collected and the contracts
and consent that give you a legal basis for procuring this data. The intended use of this data, published as
a privacy policy and communicated internally and with individuals whose data is being collected. The amount of data you need to meet your defined
purposes. For example, does the email address meet your
purpose, or do you also need to have the phone numbers and pin codes? In the Data Processing stage, you will be
required to establish The details of how you are going to process
personal data. And your legal basis for the processing of
personal data, such as a contract or consent. In the Data Storage stage, you will be required
to establish Where the data will be stored, including specific
measures that will be taken to prevent internal and external security breaches. In the Data Sharing stage, you will establish Which third-party vendors in your supply chain
may have access to the data you are collecting. as well how will you hold them contractually
accountable to the same regulations you are liable for. In the Data Retention and Disposal stages,
you will be required to establish What policies and processes you will follow
for the retention and deletion of personal data after a designated time. And how will you ensure that in the case of
data deletion, it will be removed from all locations, including third-party systems? At each of these stages, you will be required
to maintain an auditable trail of personal data acquisition, processing, storage, access,
retention, and deletion. Now let's look at some of the controls made
available through different tools and technologies for ensuring compliance to governance regulations. Authentication and Access Control Today's platforms offer layered authentication
processes, such as a combination of passwords, tokens, and biometrics, to provide foolproof
protection against unauthorized access of data. Authentication systems are designed to verify
that you are who you say you are. Access control systems ensure that authorized
users have access to resources, both systems and data, based on their user group and role. Databases, for example, have the concept of
roles and privileges so only authorized users and applications can access specific objects,
such as tables or rows or columns, in a database. Encryption and Data Masking Using encryption, data is converted to an
encoded format that can only be legible once it is decrypted via a secure key. Encryption of data is available both for data at rest, as it resides in the storage
systems, and data in transit, as it moves through browsers,
services, applications, and storage systems. Data Masking provides anonymization of data
for downstream processing and pseudonymization of data. Using Anonymization, the presentation layer
is abstracted without changing the data in the database itself. For example, replacing characters with symbols
when they are displayed on the screen. Pseudonymization of data is a de-identification
process where personally identifiable information is replaced with artificial identifiers so
that a data set cannot be traced back to an individual's identity—for example, replacing
the name with a random value from the names dictionary. Hosting options in on-premise and cloud systems
that comply with the requirements and restrictions for international data transfers. Monitoring and Alerting functionalities Security monitoring helps to proactively monitor,
track, and react to security violations across infrastructure, applications, and platforms. Monitoring systems also provide detailed audit
reports that track access and other operations on the data. Alerting functionalities flag security breaches
as they occur so that immediate remedial actions can be triggered. The alerts are based on the severity and urgency
level of the breach, which is pre-defined in the system. Data Erasure Data erasure is a software-based method of
permanently clearing data from a system by overwriting. This is different from a simple deletion of
data since deleted data can still be retrieved. In this video, we learned why data governance
and compliance, which go hand-in-hand, are critical through the data lifecycle, and the
role tools and technologies play in the governance implementation framework.