In this video, we will listen
to several data professionals talk about the importance of
data security as it relates to data engineering. So if your data is not secure,
nothing else about it really is going to matter in the long run.
There are many companies who are examples of serious data
breaches, and while that won't necessarily put you out of
business these days, that depends on the size of your
organization somewhat to begin with. If you're a smaller
organization and you lose access to your own data, that's
certainly a potentially company-ending problem. You really
can't understate the importance of data security. It's often
something we think of, oh we'll, harden it after go live or we'll
harden it just before go live. But really it's something that
you have to be thinking about data security along every step
of the way. The importance of security of data can't be stressed enough. A few years
ago, The Economist magazine published an article saying the
world's most valuable resource is no longer oil, but data. So if data is the most valuable
resource an organization has, it needs to be secured and protected. And failure to do so
can have catastrophic consequences. So data security, governance, compliance, these
are not just things that a data engineer needs to worry about. This needs to be an important
part of not just the data architecture, but the entire
organizational processes and every part of the organization
needs to keep on top of these things. We have to make sure
that when we have separate production and non-production
environments that our production data doesn't get unmasked into a
lower environment. There are absolutely data breaches that
can happen that way. We have to think about making sure that
people who have access to production data really need that
access to production data. The important thing is to understand
the security levels and roles for the tool you're using, and
make sure that each user is getting the least privilege
they need in order to do their jobs. It's when we give people
more access that we really open things up to data breaches
and data security problems. Most of the threats to your data
are actually more likely to come from within your organization
than without. It may be exciting, or whatever, to think of
somebody coming from outside of your organization to get to your
data, but most often that threat is going to come from inside your organization. A lot
of the things that we hear about in the data profession are
things like people at prescription drug places
accessing the prescriptions of celebrities. There are things
along those lines that we have to be very careful in
protecting the data. Data is a natural resource these
days, right? The world of Big Data, data is oil, that's our new
natural resource. So it's our job to make sure that that financial aspect of
valuable data is protected and that our organization is
not at risk for being in the news as one of those causing
a data breach or even worse, being put out of business
because of a data breach. I consider part of data
security, the ability to restore my data and the ability to
recover if a particular set of hardware fails. To me, that's
part of security, because if we lose the data because of a
hardware failure, that means we don't have access to the data,
which is part of data security in my own estimation.