In this video, we will listen
to several data professionals talk about the different
paths you can take to get into data engineering. For folks who want to be data
engineers, I want to share two pieces of advice.
First, focus on building a strong foundation. Data engineering is a relatively
new field and every year there are also new technologies emerging. It is important to learn those
new technologies. But as a starting point I think we
should build a strong foundation in SQL, Python,
data modeling and ETL methodologies. Second, pay attention to hands-on experience. Nothing is worth more
in data engineering than hands-on experience. You
may think it is hard to get hands-on experience without a
full-time job or internship, but it shouldn't be that hard. In data engineering world there
are lots of open-source tools, or framing tools, with the support
of enormous online learning materials. I believe there are
many ways you can leverage those tools to do your personal
projects and to practice. Having had experience would not only
help your resume to stand out in the candidate pool, but would
also enable you to tackle a lot of questions during the interview process. So my first
advice to anybody working towards becoming a data engineer
would be to practice; to find things that you can do
that will give you practice in the area. One of my
favorite junior DBAs that I work with used to bring his laptop to
me with a VM on it and say, hey, break my database. And this was
great because I would come up with every different way I had
seen a database break and I would try to simulate it on his
laptop and he would come up with solutions. And man, he was a
great troubleshooter for having gone through that because he had
seen a lot of the things that it took me years of experience to
actually run into. So anyway, you can come up with to practice.
And that can be coming up with your own project. That can be
building a database for something in your life. And
another one is to get involved with a professional
organization. It's great to get involved with other people who
are working in that area and to learn from them. What I give to
the aspiring data engineer is learn database internals. If you
understand the data structures that power these data sources,
that's half the battle of the data engineer. Learn SQL and
programming languages. I would say ideally one procedural
language such as Shell Scripting or PL/SQL or Perl, and an
object-oriented programming language, either Java or Python,
and a functional programming language such as Scala. Once you gain certain expertise,
try to share your knowledge with your peers in the community. For
example, share your code in the GitHub public repositories or
start writing articles on LinkedIn or create your own blog.
And work extremely hard when you're relatively young and stay
curious. If you do some of these things, I don't think you will
have any kind of problem getting hired as a data engineer. Data
Engineers are really in high demand these days. What I would recommend is to think
about how you're sharing your knowledge and how you're giving
back. I'm a Blogger. I write a lot about about Db2 and about
data in general at DataGeek.blog. And that is one of the
number one things. Even if you've been doing something for
as little as six months, you may know more about some aspect of
that thing than anybody else. So even if you've been working with
a product for a very short amount of time, beginner blog entries are great.
So it's really important as you're starting your journey in
data engineering to share your knowledge and make sure that you
are giving back to the data engineering community. So if you
want to become a data engineer, you need to understand one
thing. The whole concept of data engineering is a lot of skills;
it's a lot of width. You need to master a variety of skills and
tools. It can be very overwhelming. if you look at all
those skills, or technologies, or tools at once. One RDBMS, choose
any RDBMS that is available to you and you're comfortable with,
and you can master one RDBMS. After that, move on to master at
least one NoSQL database. It can be MongoDB, Cassandra, Neo4J
React, or Radius. You can also understand concepts like web
scraping an also start learning them. And also understand that in
the future you will be expected to work with APIs. So APIs
is way with which you can interact with other systems
seamlessly. So the first thing is to build the right skills.
Get your credentials and certificates and then
demonstrate your expertise in technology or a product that you
enjoy working with and is in demand. You know, write blog
posts, write articles, create some YouTube videos or
screencasts and demos. And you don't have to be an expert to be
able to do so. One of great ways of learning something is to
learn to be able to teach it to others. Join a local
networking group or a meetup, You know, not just to learn, but
also to meet with other people in the field and share your
insights and experiences. Like other technology fields,
data engineering is continuously evolving. And so make learning
a part of, a continuous part, of your life long process. You know, keep learning and keep up with the new
technologies and approaches to working with data. Wish you all
the success on your journey to becoming a data engineer.